Bomb explodes in central Athens, no one hurt

A time bomb exploded outside the building of the Federation of Greek Enterprises, near Parliament in central Athens, police said, causing damage but no injuries.

The nighttime blast occurred early Tuesday in a narrow street outside the federation offices, near Athens' main Syntagma Square and just 200 meters (yards) from Parliament. Police had cordoned off the area following warning telephone calls made in Greek to two Athens daily newspapers.

There was no immediate claim of responsibility.

Militant anarchist and far-left groups have carried out bomb attacks in Greece for decades, frequently targeting banks and the offices of large companies. But the frequency of attacks has fallen in recent years, following the arrest and prosecution of militants from several domestic groups, some of whom are currently on trial.

Tuesday's blast smashed windows in several nearby buildings, including a hotel, private apartments, and the Embassy of Cyprus.

Police officers wearing coveralls gathered evidence from the scene for several hours as roads in the area remained closed.

The government and opposition parties condemned the attack.
The Catalan Parliament reject Mas’ candidacy again
The election of a new President of Catalonia will again have to wait. 73 MPs from the 135 in the Catalan chamber refused this Thursday to re-elect current President, Artur Mas, which is exactly the same result that the candidate got in the first round of the investiture debate. The only MPs who supported Mas’ candidacy were the 62 members of the pro-independence cross-party list, ‘Junts Pel Sí’. Their partner in the roadmap towards independence, radical left CUP, repeated their ‘no’ to Mas, as they repeatedly announced they would. The schedule for the upcoming weeks established that the parliamentary groups will hold meetings and continue to negotiate in order to present an alternative candidate, but if one is not chosen before the 10th of January, the Parliament will have to call elections again. This is the first time in the Parliament’s history that a candidate hasn’t obtained a majority to be instated in the second round.
Appeals Court Rules Memos on Targeted Killings Can Stay Classified

A federal appeals court ruled in a decision unsealed on Monday that the Justice Department could continue to conceal internal documents related to targeted killings in the fight against Al Qaeda.

A Freedom of Information Act lawsuit forced the Obama administration last year to reveal a secret memo that authorized the killing of the American-born terrorist leader Anwar al-Awlaki. But the new ruling, handed down in October, makes it unlikely that the suit will yield much else in the way of public disclosures.

A three-judge panel of the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in New York, ruled unanimously that the government could keep secret about 10 documents regarding targeted killing operations against noncitizens abroad because the details of American legal policy and standards on that issue remained classified.

“We emphasize at the outset that the lawfulness of drone strikes is not at issue,” Judge Jon O. Newman wrote for the panel. “This appeal, like the prior one, primarily concerns whether documents considering such lawfulness must be disclosed.”

Judge Newman was joined in the ruling by Judges José A. Cabranes and Rosemary S. Pooler. The litigation was a consolidation of separate Freedom of Information Act lawsuits brought by The New York Times and the American Civil Liberties Union.

The Justice Department declined to comment, but Jameel Jaffer, an A.C.L.U. lawyer, deplored the ruling and urged the Obama administration to voluntarily disclose more information about its standards for when it believes that killing terrorism suspects is legally justified.

“We strongly disagree that these crucial legal memos can lawfully be kept secret,” he said. “In a democracy, there should be no room for ‘secret law,’ and the courts should not play a role in perpetuating it.” He added, “The government should not be using lethal force based on standards that are explained only vaguely and on facts that are never published or independently reviewed.”

The same appeals court panel in 2014 forced the Obama administration to reveal a lengthy July 2010 memo from the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel about killing Mr. Awlaki, a radical Muslim cleric working with Al Qaeda’s branch in Yemen who died in a drone strike in 2011. A Nigerian terrorist who tried to blow up a Detroit-bound airliner with a bomb in his underwear on Christmas in 2009 told the F.B.I. in early 2010 that Mr. Awlaki had helped orchestrate the plot.

The government also later made public a shorter legal memo about killing Mr. Awlaki, from February 2010, that the longer memo had replaced.

But Judge Newman wrote that there was a big difference between the Awlaki memos and other memos about targeted killing operations: Officials had revealed extensive details about the government’s legal analysis regarding the killing of a citizen. They did so both in speeches and in an unclassified “white paper” that the Justice Department officially disclosed after a copy was leaked to NBC News.

As a result of those disclosures, the judge wrote, the government had waived its right to withhold the Awlaki memos. By contrast, the government has stayed relatively tight-lipped about the topics in its other Office of Legal Counsel memos.

A Federal District Court judge, Colleen McMahon, had previously ruled that the memos could be lawfully withheld from the public, while deploring what she termed the “Alice in Wonderland” logic of the law. After reversing her ruling and ordering the release of the Awlaki memo, the appeals court sent the case back to Judge McMahon to weigh whether the other memos on targeted killings should be disclosed.

Later, in October 2014, Judge McMahon ruled that the government could keep those other memos secret. The plaintiffs appealed again, but this time the appeals court upheld her ruling.

A redacted transcript of arguments that the government made in July to the appeals court, with lawyers for The Times and the A.C.L.U. not present so that classified information could be discussed, showed that the judges were considering ordering the government to reveal two and a half pages of a 2002 Office of Legal Counsel memo regarding targeted killings abroad.

But the panel decided not to take that step. In its ruling, it said that while government officials in the Obama era had discussed killing foreigners abroad in several speeches, there was insufficient connection between those public remarks and the memo written years earlier to warrant the same kind of waiver granted for the Awlaki memo.

If the parties do not appeal, there will be one small additional disclosure as a result of the appeals court’s latest ruling. The court said that most of three paragraphs that were redacted when Judge McMahon’s October 2014 ruling was released should be uncovered. They address “hypothetical situations that might raise issues of waiver of attorney-client privilege with respect to a noncompete clause in an employment contract.”
Donald Trump’s Hosting of ‘S.N.L.’ Means Equal Airtime for Rivals

NBC viewers in Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina should be prepared to see a lot of four Republican presidential candidates over the Thanksgiving weekend.

After Donald J. Trump hosted “Saturday Night Live” this month, several of his Republican rivals filed complaints about receiving equal airtime. So NBC has granted the campaigns of Gov. John Kasich of Ohio, Mike Huckabee, James Gilmore and Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina their specific equal-airtime requests.

This does not mean that a coming “S.N.L.” episode will be hosted by any of the candidates. Nor will there even be a cameo.

What it does entail will be the use of commercial and promotional airtime in prime time this weekend, including during “Saturday Night Live,” when a re-run will be broadcast.

Still at the negotiating table is George E. Pataki, the former governor of New York, who also filed a complaint requesting equal airtime.

“We continue to negotiate with NBC and remain hopeful we can reach a swift resolution,” said David Catalfamo, a spokesman for the Pataki campaign.

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.
Rajoy, unable to argue why the Catalans would no longer be European citizens during a Radio interview
The Spanish President, Mariano Rajoy, has been unable to argue why the Catalans would no longer be European citizens in the event of the independence of Catalonia. A simple question by the journalist Carlos Alsina on Onda Cero today has left him defenseless. Watch the video clip:

Transcribed here, is the conversation that begins with a statement by Rajoy:

—What they are claiming to ask people is to to renounce their status as Spaniards and Europeans. This is nonsense. Why should they lose out on their right to be Spanish and European? This goes against the destiny of time.

—But Spanish nationality will not be lost. In the case of the independence of Catalonia, the Spanish nationality will not be lost by the citizens of Catalonia.

—I don’t know why it won’t be lost. And European nationality neither?

—Because the law says that a citizen born in Spain does not lose their nationality even though he resides in a foreign country, if he has the wish to preserve it.

—Then… the European nationality?

—And he would keep his European nationality because he has Spanish nationality.

—I think that this disquisition is not leading anywhere.
Ben Carson Clarifies Remarks on Muslims Celebrating on 9/11

Donald J. Trump has been under fire for insisting that Muslims in New Jersey were cheering when the World Trade Center fell on Sept. 11, 2001 — a claim that has been difficult to corroborate.

But on Monday, one of Mr. Trump’s chief rivals for the Republican presidential nomination said that he, too, saw American Muslims celebrate as the twin towers fell.

“I saw the film of it,” Ben Carson, the retired neurosurgeon who is running close to Mr. Trump in many polls, said.

But later on Monday, Mr. Carson said that he was mistaken in saying that he saw Muslims cheering in New Jersey. According to ABC News he said he was thinking about protests he saw in the Middle East.

Accounts of such behavior in the United States have largely been considered folklore in the years since the attacks, and New Jersey lawmakers and officials say they cannot remember such celebrations occurring.

Mr. Trump said that he recalled seeing it happen on television, and on Monday he distributed a Washington Post article from 2001 that reported that “a number of people” in Jersey City were detained after the attacks for allegedly holding tailgate parties on roofs to watch the devastation.

In his original remarks Monday, Mr. Carson said that he also remembered seeing such scenes on the news, but that such behavior should not be held against all Muslims.

“There are going to be people who respond inappropriately to virtually everything,” Mr. Carson said. “I think that was an inappropriate response. I don’t know if, on the basis of that, you can say all Muslims are bad people. I really think that would be a stretch.”
Hillary Clinton Looks Past Primaries, and to Republicans, in Strategy to Beat Sanders

At rallies these days, Mrs. Clinton criticizes the Republican presidential candidates for their economic policies (“Our economy does better with a Democrat in the White House”); she knocks their foreign policy approaches and says their positions on immigration and women’s issues would set the country “backwards instead of forwards.”

What she does not do is mention her main Democratic primary opponent, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont.

Hillary Rodham Clinton at the Democratic debate in Iowa last weekend, in which she addressed her relationship with Wall Street.Wall St. Ties Linger as Image Issue for Hillary ClintonNOV. 21, 2015
Hillary Rodham Clinton spoke about taking on the global threat of ISIS at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York on Thursday.Hillary Clinton Goes Beyond President Obama in Plan to Defeat ISISNOV. 19, 2015
First Draft: Hillary Clinton Proposes Middle-Class Tax Cut Tied to Health CareNOV. 20, 2015
At a United States-Israel relations gala in Washington in November 2012, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton talked with the dinner's host Haim Saban, center.First Draft: Major Hillary Clinton Donor Urges ‘More Scrutiny’ of MuslimsNOV. 19, 2015
President Obama and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton at the White House in 2010.Paris Attacks Complicate Hillary Clinton’s Alignment With ObamaNOV. 17, 2015
Former President Bill Clinton campaigning for his wife in Des Moines last month.First Draft: Bill Clinton to Appear for ‘Super PAC’ Backing Hillary ClintonNOV. 17, 2015
Hillary Rodham Clinton spoke at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland last month.Hillary Clinton Relying on Southern Primaries to Fend Off RivalsSEPT. 5, 2015
Mrs. Clinton has regained her footing in the polls in Iowa and New Hampshire, and she has locked in the support of major labor unions and over half the Democratic Party’s superdelegates, party leaders and elected officials, needed to secure the nomination. She is now acting as if she were no longer running against one rival, Mr. Sanders, but 14: the Republicans who are still preoccupied with cutting down one another.

Senator Bernie Sanders greeted the crowd on Saturday in North Charleston, S.C. Credit Mic Smith/Associated Press
A substantial lead in the polls could prompt any candidate to look beyond the primary to try to get a head start on the general election, but in Mrs. Clinton’s case, gazing past Mr. Sanders to next November is part of the intensified strategy to defeat him.

Even voters who support Mr. Sanders often say that Mrs. Clinton appears more electable when compared with a Republican nominee. And while her economic message, considering her ties to Wall Street and the “super PAC” supporting her, can seem muddled when contrasted with Mr. Sanders’s, it sounds more forceful to Democratic voters compared with Republican proposals. And, as a campaign aide points out, the Republican candidates consistently criticize Mrs. Clinton, so it makes sense for her to punch back.

“I love Bernie, and I feel he’d get something done about the lopsided distribution of wealth in this country,” said Siobhan Hansen, 58, an undecided voter in Charleston. “But,” she added, “I hate to admit it but I just think Hillary has a better chance in the general election.”

Even as Mrs. Clinton’s campaign has invested heavily in Iowa and New Hampshire and her schedule revolves around states with early primaries, her message has become a broader rejoinder reminding voters of the 2008 financial crisis and linking the Republican candidates to the foreclosures and joblessness that President Obama inherited. It is a strategy her campaign believes will be effective in a general election contest after having a dry run before the primaries.

“They are running on the same economic policies that have failed us before,” Mrs. Clinton said at a rally in Memphis on Friday. She did not mention Mr. Sanders, but his stances on wealth and income have seemed to influence his rival’s populist tone. “Trickledown economics, cut taxes on the wealthy, get out of the way of big corporations,” she said. “Well, we know how that story ends, don’t we?”

At a town-hall-style event in Grinnell, Iowa, this month, Mrs. Clinton, talking about the importance of voter participation, even seemed to forget, albeit briefly, that the short-term goal was to win the Iowa caucuses. “If not me, I hope you caucus for somebody,” she said. She paused. “I hope more of you caucus for me.”

Mrs. Clinton is focused on capturing the nomination and has been contrasting herself with the Republicans since she announced her candidacy in April, the campaign aide said.

Mr. Sanders’s campaign manager, Jeff Weaver, said Mrs. Clinton’s obsession with the Republican Party is a tactic to diminish her main Democratic primary opponent, whose economic message has attracted enormous crowds and enthusiasm.

As Mr. Sanders delivered his standard speech about inequality here on Saturday, Mr. Weaver closely watched the voters in the front row who wore blue “H” T-shirts, indicating their support for Mrs. Clinton, as they cheered for Mr. Sanders several times.

“We are much closer to Secretary Clinton today than Senator Obama was in 2008,” Mr. Weaver said. “I don’t think they think this is locked up.”

Mrs. Clinton may have been helped by the campaign’s shift to foreign policy, where Mr. Sanders is seen as weaker, after the Nov. 13 terrorist attack in Paris. Mrs. Clinton said in a speech in New York on Thursday that the Republicans’ approach to fighting the Islamic State, compared with her own, amounted to “a choice between fear and resolve.” She derided as un-American the Republicans who said they would either bar Syrian refugees from resettling in the United States or allow only Christian refugees.

“There are forces no candidate can control, and they can be detrimental,” Representative James E. Clyburn, Democrat of South Carolina, said when asked about the newfound focus on defeating the Islamic State. “I believe in this case third-party forces are working in her favor.”

Among Democrats, Mrs. Clinton holds a 25 percentage point lead over Mr. Sanders nationally, according to a Bloomberg Politics poll released on Friday. She had a nine-point advantage in the same poll in September, when it included Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., who later said he would not seek the nomination.

“By turning up the heat on Republicans, going after Trump, that’s all part of the essence of saying, ‘I am the leader of the Democratic Party,’ ” said Robert Shrum, a strategist for Democratic presidential candidates including John Kerry and Al Gore.

The primary is by no means determined. Polls in Iowa, in particular, tend to undercount Mr. Sanders’s young supporters who do not have landline phones, his aides say. And he continues to lead in some polls in New Hampshire, which was supposed to be a stronghold for Mrs. Clinton.

Even as Mrs. Clinton focuses firmly on the Republicans, her campaign is increasing its indirect, if aggressive, moves to squeeze Mr. Sanders.

She has secured the backing of major labor unions, including most recently the Service Employees International Union, which has two million members. Her campaign has emphasized Mrs. Clinton’s commitment to gun control, an issue that Mr. Sanders, as a senator from a hunting state, has been less vehement about, and she delivered a major foreign policy speech on Thursday in New York, the same day Mr. Sanders delivered a speech about Democratic socialism in Washington. (“Ah, the attempted bigfoot,” Mr. Weaver said of the timing of the two speeches. The Clinton campaign announced its speech a day earlier than the Sanders team.)

Mrs. Clinton has also started to imply that Mr. Sanders’s single-payer “Medicare for All” health care plan would amount to a middle-class tax increase.

In recent days, she has unveiled a plan to give Americans with unexpected medical costs a tax credit of $2,500 for an individual or $5,000 for a family. On Sunday in Iowa, she introduced another tax credit to cover up to $6,000 of medical expenses for middle-class families caring for ailing parents or grandparents. “I believe you deserve a raise, not a tax increase,” she said in Memphis.

The Sanders campaign said that his plan would save the average family $5,000 a year through the elimination of premiums, deductibles and co-payments, and it called Mrs. Clinton’s plan “Republican-lite” because it proposed short-term tax cuts over long-term benefits.

Mrs. Clinton’s opponents point out that there is no more precarious place for her to be than when she seems inevitable, as she did in the early months of the 2008 Democratic primary before she finished third in the Iowa caucuses behind Senators Barack Obama and John Edwards.

This month, just after Mrs. Clinton had officially put her name on the ballot in New Hampshire, she took some questions from local reporters at the State House in Concord. The first question: “How does it feel to once again be inevitable?”

Mrs. Clinton said she had put her name on the ballot in that very room in 2007. “I’m back again,” she said. “I intend to do everything I can to work as hard as possible to be successful this time.”
