If you get a phone call telling you about a free Marriott stay, hang up — it's a scam

If someone calls you and tells you that you’ve won a stay at a Marriott Hotel, just hang up the phone. Don’t curl an imaginary cord around your finger or start circling potential dates on your calendar, and definitely don’t say “Tell me more.” Because the promise of a complimentary night at a Marriott property is just the latest way that scammers are trying to get you to share your personal information and credit card number with them.

Earlier this month, Eugene, Oregon resident Nicholas Lamb told KDRV that he’d been on the receiving end of several of these calls. A caller with a local number rang him up, promising him a “fishy” sounding Marriott stay if he answered a series of personal questions. Realizing that he wasn’t going to need to pack a suitcase anytime soon, he filed a police report and called the local news. According to reports from Canadian residents who were targeted by this same scam, the callers will ask if the person who answers is more than 30 years old and if they currently have a credit card open in their name. Hopefully, that kind of question would trigger your more skeptical side, the part of your brain that says “Hey, wait a minute…”

According to media outlets and even concerned-sounding posts on Marriott ‘s own Facebook page, this particular scam has been targeting U.S. and Canadian residents for at least six months. Despite the red flags that might be raised by questions about your active credit cards, the fact that the calls appear to be coming from local numbers  — whatever local is for you — can throw people off. And, unlike the “Front Desk Scam” that has affected hotel guests, these calls don’t require you to be staying in a Marriott property at the time; you just just have to be willing to answer your phone.

Marriott has been informed of the ongoing scam and is reminding any potential victims to keep their credit card information to themselves. In a statement, Marriott said:

“Marriott International has been made aware of a series of fraudulent telephone calls being made in different parts of the world where the caller offers a complimentary stay at a Marriott hotel to entice the person taking the call to listen to a sales pitch unrelated to Marriott […] Marriott has not provided any information to the parties involved in these fraudulent calls.  If you receive a suspicious telephone call, especially for a contest you did not enter, we urge you not to provide any personal information, especially credit card information.  Instead, simply end the phone call.”


When Spaniards were the refugees
The Syrian migrant crisis is drawing comparisons with the exodus during Spain’s Civil War

With tens of thousands of refugees continuing to arrive on the shores of Europe this summer, most of them fleeing the conflict in Syria, the scenes have brought back memories of Spain’s own Civil War to some people. 

“Seventy-six years separate these two photographs,” writes Antonio Manfredi in the Facebook post below. “The top one is from this summer, showing war refugees in Macedonia. The one below, the same, depicts Spaniards held in French internment camps after the Civil War. What’s the difference? We can’t just be content with our newfound wealth. We have to remember who we were.”

This photograph, among the many highlighting the similarities between today’s situation and the desperate efforts of Spaniards to flee poverty last century, shows a group of around 100 people who sailed from the Canary Islands to Venezuela without papers in 1949. A decade ago the image was used alongside the slogan “We too were foreigners” as part of an awareness campaign created by the regional government of the Canary Islands at a time when large numbers of people were arriving there in rickety boats from West Africa.

EL PAÍS journalist Tomás Bárbulo notes that the men and women aboard the boat were mostly farm laborers who earned around 20 pesetas (12 euro cents) a day working from sunup to sundown, and who paid 4,000 pesetas (€24) to make the crossing.

“Juan Azcona, one of the organizers of the voyage, says he had around 20 people staying in his house,” says Bárbulo. “Today, under current law, he would be sent to prison for people trafficking.”

“When those 106 people disembarked in Latin America, Spain was mired in misery and under the boot of Franco, while Venezuela was an emerging economy. Although the difference between the two states was less than say, Nigeria and Spain today, at the time, Spaniards were looking abroad to make a new life, in the same way that people from Africa do today,” says Bárbulo.

Used by journalist Toño Fraguas in an article in El Mundo newspaper, this photograph shows the British vessel the Stanbrook, which along with three other steamers and several fishing boats, left the port of Alicante in March 1939, in the final days of the Civil War, with 2,638 people aboard.

When the Stanbrook arrived in the Algerian port of Oran, the French authorities initially refused to allow passengers to disembark, eventually transferring them to internment camps.

Meanwhile, desperate Republicans continued arriving in the Valencia region after those boats left, looking for a way out of Spain. Many committed suicide or drowned after throwing themselves into the sea. London and Paris were disinclined to accept Spanish war refugees, but one country that did step forward was Mexico, then ruled by left-leaning president Lázaro Cárdenas.

On July 1, 1940, Cárdenas said Mexico was prepared to accept all Spanish refugees then in France, and placed them under Mexican diplomatic protection. Spanish refugees continued to travel from France to Mexico until December 1942, when Germany occupied Vichy France, which had been run by a puppet regime headed by Marshal Pétain.

Spanish Republicans had been escaping to Mexico since 1937, when a boat carrying 463 children left Bordeaux. According to Alted, some of the children were sent without the permission of their parents.

But Cárdenas was criticized by conservatives at home, as well as by labor unions, which feared the new arrivals would drive down wages.

The Mexican authorities tried to vet refugees, allowing only those in with sufficient funds to travel, and keeping them away from Mexico City. The majority of Spaniards who went to Mexico were from the middle classes: teachers, lawyers and other professionals, along with politicians and intellectuals, most of whom did take up residence in the capital. Estimates put the number of Spaniards who left for Mexico after the war at between 20,000 and 24,000.

Spanish war refugees also ended up in Argentina, Chile, Cuba, the Soviet Union, the United States, Dominican Republic and other countries. But many also ended up in French prison camps. Alted quotes José Ramón y Mena, a Republican who arrived at the Argelès camp in February 1939: “There were no toilets or running water, the French had installed some water pumps on the beach, using saltpeter, and this created dreadful conditions that led to a dysentery epidemic. People were dropping like flies.”

France was clearly not prepared to accept the Spanish exiles and, as Alted notes, “was especially interested in forcing people to return to Spain or to move on to other countries.”

As a result of France’s refusal to offer the refugees sanctuary, by the end of 1939, growing numbers of Spaniards, particularly women and children, had returned to Spain, leaving between 140,000 and 180,000 in French prison camps. Men aged between 20 and 48 were required to work for the French military authorities, and around 55,000 were enrolled into various organizations, including the French Foreign Legion. When the Germans invaded in the summer of 1940 and France capitulated, many Spaniards became prisoners of war and were sent to Germany to work, says Alted.

But by 1943, Spaniards were being sent from French prison camps to German concentration camps such as Mauthausen, in Austria, as British historian Paul Preston writes in his book The Spanish Holocaust. “On August 20, 1940, a train consisting of cattle wagons left Angoulême with 927 Spanish refugees aboard,” writes Preston. They believed they were being taken to the French-run part of France. “The journey lasted three days and nights, with the refugees unable to sit, with no food or water. On August 24, they arrived at Mauthausen.”

Preston tells how the women and children were taken off the train shortly after it left Angoulême and repatriated to Spain against their wishes. Of the 490 men who arrived to Mauthausen, 397 died there. In total, more than 5,000 Spaniards died in German concentration camps after they were handed over by the French authorities.

Turning down the volume in Spain’s noisy bars and restaurants
A new campaign is aiming to encourage more eateries to create quieter environments
Excessive noise is not just bothersome but can also be harmful.
It’s probably happened to you before: you go to a restaurant with a group of people, you sit down and start talking at a normal volume.

But little by little, the place fills up, you stop hearing what your friends are saying, and you end up having to scream just to make yourself heard.

In schools and hospitals, excessive noise prevents students from concentrating and patients from getting the rest they need”
Svante Borjesson, Oír es Clave
You finally walk out feeling like you’ve spent the evening at a fairground and missed half of the conversation.

The progressive volume increase caused by the reverberation of sound inside an enclosed space has a name: “the café effect.” And it is not so hard to prevent.

“Spain is the second loudest country in the world, after Japan,” says Svante Borjesson, director general of the Oír es clave Foundation, which works with people with hearing problems. “Noise and acoustic pollution have an effect on our everyday life and negatively impacts everyone, not just those with hearing problems.”

In order to raise awareness about the issue, the foundation has developed a project called Comer sin ruido (or, Eating without noise), aimed at restaurant and bar owners who want to create friendlier environments for their patrons.

 “The café effect does not just happen at bars and restaurants,” says Borjesson. “I am even more concerned about schools and hospitals, where excessive noise prevents students from concentrating and patients from getting the rest they need.”

“And that’s without even talking about the workplace, where noise has a great impact on productivity. But we decided to start with bars and restaurants, because it’s an attractive area where it’s easier to make an impact,” he adds.

The Comer sin ruido website features a list of 20 restaurants that have adopted the necessary measures to reduce noise levels, including placing sufficient space between tables, installing proper soundproofing in lounge and bar areas, avoiding clatter in the kitchen and playing music at a reasonable volume.

The idea is for restaurants themselves to become aware of the problem and self-regulate.

“We would like to see travel guides such as Michelin and Repsol take this factor into account,” says Borjesson. “Auditory comfort should also be an important part of a restaurant review and get a mention. We’re working on it.”

Despite the prevailing belief that the loud volume inside many Spanish bars and restaurants is simply a national idiosyncrasy, Borjesson believes that a lot of it has to do with poor building materials – or using the wrong ones altogether. Cement and marble, for instance, are not porous and do not absorb sounds well, while wood does. But wood is not widely employed in Spain.

“It’s hard to raise awareness about the danger of noise pollution, but we’ve made a lot of progress,” says Borjesson. “People are making efforts, and you see more and more establishments with sound baffles [to reduce reverberation] on the ceiling, for instance. You don’t need a decibel meter to figure out if a place has done its homework or not. If you have to raise your voice to make yourself heard, it has not.”
