Forward Kawhi Leonard had 24 points and 13 rebounds and the San Antonio Spurs used a season-high 18 steals to roll past the Phoenix Suns 98-84 on Monday night and remain unbeaten at home.

Phoenix played without leading scorer guard Eric Bledsoe who was ruled out of the game just before tipoff with a knee injury. The Suns had a season-high 28 turnovers.

Guard Tony Parker added 20 points and guard Danny Green scored a season-high 18 points for San Antonio (11-3) which is 7-0 at the AT&T Center this season. Reserve guard Patty Mills scored for 10 points for the Spurs who shot 51.2 percent from the floor but converted just 5 of 10 free throw.

Phoenix (7-7) was led by forward Markieff Morris' game-high 28 points just two of which came in the fourth quarter on 12-of-15 shooting from the field.

Guard Brandon Knight scored 18 points for the Suns including 12 in the fourth quarter and reserve forward T.J. Warren added 16 points.

The Spurs led 20-17 at the end of the first quarter as Leonard poured in 11 points including the first seven for San Antonio. Morris had eight points in the quarter for the Suns who stayed close even though they had had nine turnovers in the first 12 minutes.

San Antonio expanded its advantage to 44-34 at halftime despite missing five of its nine free throws in the first two quarters and committing 10 turnovers.

Phoenix shot just 39.4 percent in the first 24 minutes and allowed San Antonio 10 points off of its 15 turnovers 10 of which were Spurs steals.

After the Suns cut the Spurs' lead to 44-38 on a Morris jumper with 10:22 left in the third quarter the Spurs reasserted themselves with a 10-3 run in which Leonard scored seven straight points.

But Morris kept shooting -- he had 14 points in the quarter -- and Phoenix got within 67-60 heading into the fourth quarter.

Suns coach Jeff Hornacek tried to steal a few extra minutes of rest for Morris at the start of the fourth quarter but the move backfired on the Suns. By the time Morris came back in the game with 7:45 to play San Antonio had built its lead back to 78-64 and Phoenix never again got closer than nine points.

NOTES: Spurs F LaMarcus Aldridge missed his second straight game with a mild left ankle sprain suffered in the first quarter of San Antonio's 104-90 loss to New Orleans on Friday. ... Spurs G Tony Parker has scored in double figures in 11 of the team's first 13 games and ranks in the NBA's top 20 in field goal percentage (.532). ... Former Spurs great George Gervin was originally chosen by the Suns in the 1974 NBA Draft. ... San Antonio won three of the four meetings with Phoenix last season. ... Suns G Eric Bledsoe scored 29 points on Sunday at New Orleans extending his career-long streak of games with at least 20 points to eight the most by a Phoenix player since Amare Stoudemire in 2009-10. ... G Brandon Knight already has multiple 30-point/10-rebound games this season and is the only Phoenix guard with that stat line multiple times since 1985-86 according to Basketball-Reference.
Luke Walton leans on Steve Kerr to master learning curve as NBA head coach

With the 15-0 Golden State Warriors on the verge of setting a new NBA record for best regular-season start against the Los Angeles Lakers on Tuesday night, interim head coach Luke Walton deserves serious credit for the way in which the Warriors have dominated thus far.

But, Steve Kerr’s influence — both in the past and the present — is still playing a major part.

It’s true, of course, that Kerr hasn’t coached yet this season while he continues to recover from the headaches and fatigue that are side effects of his offseason spinal fluid leak (the spinal cord was nicked during a first surgery and required a second surgery to fix the problem). Yet as Walton is the first to tell anyone, it’s a misnomer to say that Kerr has been MIA.

Kerr attends home games, team practices at home, and even traveled to a road shootaround in Los Angeles this week. In that instance, Walton and Kerr walked back to the team hotel together while discussing that night’s game plan. During the home games, they often discuss strategy in a room near the Warriors locker room during halftime before Walton addresses the team by himself.

Kerr is there in Walton’s ear almost every step of the way, making the most of a connection that he knew would be important here.

"We're talking normally a couple times a day now," Walton said of Kerr, who is still unsure when he’ll return. "And if it’s a home game, we talk at halftime, we talk pregame, we talk at shootarounds. It’s getting more and more."

Said Warriors general manager Bob Myers of Kerr and Walton: "They have equity in the relationship. They knew each other before, there’s the whole (University of) Arizona mafia deal (both men played there). So I think it’s a bonus, but a very important bonus, that they interact in a very healthy way."

Kerr has a habit of giving real responsibilities to his support staff, trusting assistant coaches, player development guys and video coordinators more than your typical NBA head coach. That belief system was on display for all to see during the NBA Finals in June, when Kerr gave public credit to 28-year-old special assistant Nick U’Ren for the series-altering decision to put Andre Iguodala in the starting lineup.

To that end, it stands to reason that the rest of their crew — from fellow assistants Ron Adams, Jarron Collins, Bruce Fraser, Chris DeMarco, U’Ren and the many others — is helping Walton take on this task as well. And the invaluable lessons, quite clearly, are coming quickly.

"From a month ago to now is completely different," Walton said.

In so, so many ways.

For starters, the chaos surrounding him isn’t as bad now as it was in the beginning. Life at home was hectic enough already for Luke and his wife, Bre Ladd, who had their first child 19 months ago, a son named Lawson. Add in this kind of a promotion, and sleep was certainly in short supply. Winning has helped make the transition as smooth as possible, not to mention his recent penchant for ignoring his cell phone because, well, there are only so many hours in the day.

"It has slowed down," Walton said of the pace. "It’s slowed down a lot, which is lovely. I just don’t respond (to some calls and texts). The first couple of weeks were crazy, but if I got back to you once then I did my job. I’ve got to prioritize. I’ve got a million things going on."

And it’s the little things of the head coaching world, far and away, that are taking up so much of his time.

From how to handle timeouts to which plays to call at the right times, rotations and the like, there’s no substitute for, well, being a substitute. As star guard Stephen Curry sees it, Walton has improved quickly.

"There was maybe once or twice in the first three or four games where he’d come back with an empty clipboard (during a timeout), or he’d start to draw up a play and then we’d run out of time and he’ll go to one of our go-to (plays)," Curry said. "But that happens to any coach. It’s just going with your gut instinct or whatever. But he’s learned a lot. He just seems comfortable. I know he prepares.

"I watched him on the plane (on Thursday night), watching the (Chicago) Bulls clips in Phoenix (from the night before) and kind of seeing how he studies the game and seeing (his preparation). After watching him watch the film and (hearing) the stuff he was talking about on the plane, where I was sitting right next to him, and then (seeing) what they bring as a defensive game plan and how we’re going to defend them (in the game), he’s prepared."

For Walton’s part, he’s torn when it comes to his takeaway: He’s having the time of his life, but also ready to relinquish the role.

"I'm having fun, but Steve deserves to be doing this right now," he said. "I can’t wait for him to get back — for him. He deserves this. He put this thing together. He loves doing it, and it’s killing him not being here. So as much as I’m enjoying it, I’m looking forward to being able to watch Steve get back to his normal life."

Curry, for one, swears he isn’t surprised by how well this has all worked under Walton.

"It doesn’t surprise me because we have the same group and the same core of guys, so we have an understanding of how we’re going to play," he said. "Luke has an understanding of the system as well since he was here last year and right underneath coach Kerr every step of the way. I don’t know how much conversation they have, and how much input Coach Kerr is having, but I know they talk every day and that Coach Kerr is around. There’s input and things like that.

"Luke is prepared. He’s done a great job of keeping that confidence and that presence in game. He hasn’t changed his personality at all. He’s the same guy."
Suarez, Neymar lead Barcelona to 4-0 rout of Real Madrid

Luis Suarez scored twice and Neymar added a goal and an assist to lead Barcelona to an emphatic 4-0 win over Real Madrid at the Santiago Bernabeu in the first "clasico" of the season on Saturday, leaving its rival under increased pressure from the home fans.

The commanding victory gave Barcelona a six-point lead in the Spanish league standings, and halted Madrid's 22-game unbeaten streak at home in the league.

Barcelona played most of the match without Lionel Messi, who came off the bench in the 56th minute after being sidelined for nearly two months because of a left knee injury.

"It was a memorable game, it will go down in history," Barcelona coach Luis Enrique said. "It's our eternal rival. It's not always that you can win with such superiority.

"We were better," he said. "I'm satisfied not just for the victory, but for the way we did it."

Real Madrid fans loudly jeered their team after the loss, its fourth in the last five games against Barcelona. Fans waved white handkerchiefs — a gesture of goodbye aimed at Madrid coach Rafa Benitez — and called for the resignation of president Florentino Perez. In a sign of Barcelona's dominance, the scorer of the third goal, Andres Iniesta, was applauded by some Madrid fans when he was substituted in the second half.

"We played a very complete game in every sense, when it came to holding the ball or to look for an advantage up front," Iniesta said. "We gave them few chances and didn't lose the ball much, something that can generate problems for us. We have been effective and played a very good match here."

Real Madrid played the final minutes with 10 men as Francisco Alarcon "Isco" was sent off after a hard foul on Neymar in the 85th.

"It hurts a lot to lose this way, especially to Barcelona," Benitez said. "We made too many mistakes and when you play against a very good team like Barcelona you end up paying for them. The only thing we can do now is continue to work hard and see how we can improve for the next match. It's a long tournament and we have to try to recover these six points."

It was the second consecutive loss for Real Madrid after an unbeaten start to its season, and the seventh straight win for Barcelona.

There were unprecedented security measures in place after the attacks in Paris last week, with nearly 3,000 policemen and private security officers working to maintain public safety at the 81,000-capacity stadium. There was a minute of silence in honor of the victims in Paris, and a large French flag was displayed across some of the lower fan sections as the players lined up at midfield before kickoff.

Barcelona reached 30 points from 12 matches, while Madrid remained with 24 points. Madrid needed to win to pull even with its rival in points and return to the top of the standings on goal difference.

Third-place Atletico Madrid, which plays at Real Betis on Sunday, is one point behind Real Madrid and seven behind Barcelona.

Barcelona was in control during most of the game and never gave Madrid many chances to score. Cristiano Ronaldo, Karim Benzema and Gareth Bale did not have any impact on the game.

Suarez and Neymar, meanwhile, continued to improve on their incredible scoring streak — the South American duo has scored 23 of the team's 27 goals since Messi got injured. It was Suarez's seventh and eighth goals in the last five games, and Neymar's sixth in the last four games. Neymar leads the league with 12 goals, one more than Suarez.

Messi recovered from a left knee injury but started the clasico on the bench because he was not yet 100 percent fit. The Argentine playmaker had missed the last nine Barcelona games.

Suarez opened the scoring in the 11th after receiving a perfect pass by Sergi Roberto behind the defenders. He used the outside of his right foot to quickly fire a firm low shot into the far corner, giving no chance to Madrid goalkeeper Keylor Navas.

Neymar increased the lead from close range in the 39th after a through ball by Iniesta. The Brazilian controlled the ball inside the area and sent it into the net with a low left-footed shot underneath Navas, who touched the ball but couldn't completely block the shot. Replays showed that Neymar appeared to be slightly offside when he received Iniesta's pass.

Iniesta scored the third with a powerful strike into the top of the net after receiving a back-heel pass from Neymar just inside the box in the 53rd, and Suarez closed the scoring from in front of the goal after being set up by Jordi Alba in the 74th.

Barcelona goalkeeper Claudio Bravo came up with big saves in the few chances created by Real Madrid, including a couple by the lackluster Ronaldo.
Bradley Has Shot into Elite Tier of 3-Point Threats

What’s going through your head nowadays when Avery Bradley fires up a shot from long distance?

For Isaiah Thomas, the answer to that question is simple.

“That it’s going in,” he said bluntly, just ahead of Monday’s practice in Atlanta.

Thomas, who has assisted on 11 of Bradley’s 64 made field goals this season, should know as well as anyone that Bradley has been on fire of late. The shooting guard is shooting the lights out.

Bradley just completed arguably the most impressive four-game stretch of his NBA career. For just the fourth time in his six seasons, he scored at least 20 points on three occasions during a four-game stretch, capped by a 27-point performance Sunday night in Brooklyn. He shot a ridiculous 53.1 percent from the field and 51.7 percent from long range during that stretch.

Only two other stretches of his NBA career are comparable to his last four games. From April 15-20 in 2012, he scored an average of 22.5 points and shot 62.7 percent from the field and 69.2 percent from long range over four games. From April 9-14 of 2014, he averaged 23.5 points while shooting 49.3 percent from the field and 55.6 percent from beyond the arc over four games.

Racking up numbers like that is nearly unheard of in this league. Needless to say, everyone in the gym believes Bradley’s shots are going in, including Bradley himself.

“I think it’s all about confidence and repetition,” he said before taking the court at Georgia Tech’s practice facility to work on his game. “Being able to get those reps up and believing that it’s going in every single time.

“Even if I miss a shot, I believe that it’s going in the next time.”

Bradley has great reason for such confidence, and it goes far beyond his last four games. He is in the midst of a career year in nearly every statistical category, most notably 3-point field goal percentage.

The shooting guard, who is a career 36.5 percent shooter from long range, has canned an impressive 43.1 percent of his treys this season, far and away a career-best rate. That mark ranks 16th in the league – just 0.7 percent behind reigning MVP Stephen Curry – among players who have attempted at least 40 3s.

In addition to the daily hard work Bradley puts in, his spike in percentage can be attributed in part to elite shot selection, according to rookie and fellow sharpshooter R.J. Hunter.

“The thing about Avery is that he doesn’t take a lot of bad 3s,” Hunter said. “So when he’s squared up and it’s a good shot, it looks like it’s going in. He’s in such a good rhythm right now.”

Bradley is not only making 3s at a career-best rate, but he’s also taking them more often than he ever had in the past. He has fired up an average of 5.3 treys per game this season, far more than his previous career high of 4.6 per game, set last season.

Boston’s offense is made for a shooter like Bradley. The pace and space that the team employs creates open shots around the perimeter, either off of dribble hand-offs or kick-outs from penetration.

Now that Bradley is making his 3s at an elite level, his teammates are looking for him as often as possible. They know that his shooting can change a game and push a defense onto its heels.

“He’s our best shooter right now, so we have to get him open,” Hunter said. “When he’s shooting the ball like that, the floor is more spaced for Isaiah and for Jae (Crowder) and for Evan (Turner) to make plays. I think everybody on the team knows that he has to make shots.”

Bradley has been delivering on that need all season long, and from everywhere on the court. Previously known as an elite 3-point shooter only from the corners, Bradley has expanded his consistency to above the break in the arc. He has canned 50.0 percent of his 3s from above the break this season, including a sizzling 61.1 percent from the left wing.

Most teams and players, including Hunter, still view the corner 3 – particularly on a fast break – as Bradley’s go-to shot. Bradley, however, has only one 3-pointer that stands above the rest.

“My favorite one is when it goes in,” he cunningly stated.

At the moment, it feels as if that’s every 3 Bradley fires up.
Now more than ever, coaches vulnerable when team fails.
Kevin McHale's ouster proves that even successful, playoff-tested coaches can be cut quickly if the team can't meet expectations
