Hillary Clinton Looks Past Primaries, and to Republicans, in Strategy to Beat Sanders

At rallies these days, Mrs. Clinton criticizes the Republican presidential candidates for their economic policies (“Our economy does better with a Democrat in the White House”); she knocks their foreign policy approaches and says their positions on immigration and women’s issues would set the country “backwards instead of forwards.”

What she does not do is mention her main Democratic primary opponent, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont.

Hillary Rodham Clinton at the Democratic debate in Iowa last weekend, in which she addressed her relationship with Wall Street.Wall St. Ties Linger as Image Issue for Hillary ClintonNOV. 21, 2015
Hillary Rodham Clinton spoke about taking on the global threat of ISIS at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York on Thursday.Hillary Clinton Goes Beyond President Obama in Plan to Defeat ISISNOV. 19, 2015
First Draft: Hillary Clinton Proposes Middle-Class Tax Cut Tied to Health CareNOV. 20, 2015
At a United States-Israel relations gala in Washington in November 2012, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton talked with the dinner's host Haim Saban, center.First Draft: Major Hillary Clinton Donor Urges ‘More Scrutiny’ of MuslimsNOV. 19, 2015
President Obama and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton at the White House in 2010.Paris Attacks Complicate Hillary Clinton’s Alignment With ObamaNOV. 17, 2015
Former President Bill Clinton campaigning for his wife in Des Moines last month.First Draft: Bill Clinton to Appear for ‘Super PAC’ Backing Hillary ClintonNOV. 17, 2015
Hillary Rodham Clinton spoke at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland last month.Hillary Clinton Relying on Southern Primaries to Fend Off RivalsSEPT. 5, 2015
Mrs. Clinton has regained her footing in the polls in Iowa and New Hampshire, and she has locked in the support of major labor unions and over half the Democratic Party’s superdelegates, party leaders and elected officials, needed to secure the nomination. She is now acting as if she were no longer running against one rival, Mr. Sanders, but 14: the Republicans who are still preoccupied with cutting down one another.

Senator Bernie Sanders greeted the crowd on Saturday in North Charleston, S.C. Credit Mic Smith/Associated Press
A substantial lead in the polls could prompt any candidate to look beyond the primary to try to get a head start on the general election, but in Mrs. Clinton’s case, gazing past Mr. Sanders to next November is part of the intensified strategy to defeat him.

Even voters who support Mr. Sanders often say that Mrs. Clinton appears more electable when compared with a Republican nominee. And while her economic message, considering her ties to Wall Street and the “super PAC” supporting her, can seem muddled when contrasted with Mr. Sanders’s, it sounds more forceful to Democratic voters compared with Republican proposals. And, as a campaign aide points out, the Republican candidates consistently criticize Mrs. Clinton, so it makes sense for her to punch back.

“I love Bernie, and I feel he’d get something done about the lopsided distribution of wealth in this country,” said Siobhan Hansen, 58, an undecided voter in Charleston. “But,” she added, “I hate to admit it but I just think Hillary has a better chance in the general election.”

Even as Mrs. Clinton’s campaign has invested heavily in Iowa and New Hampshire and her schedule revolves around states with early primaries, her message has become a broader rejoinder reminding voters of the 2008 financial crisis and linking the Republican candidates to the foreclosures and joblessness that President Obama inherited. It is a strategy her campaign believes will be effective in a general election contest after having a dry run before the primaries.

“They are running on the same economic policies that have failed us before,” Mrs. Clinton said at a rally in Memphis on Friday. She did not mention Mr. Sanders, but his stances on wealth and income have seemed to influence his rival’s populist tone. “Trickledown economics, cut taxes on the wealthy, get out of the way of big corporations,” she said. “Well, we know how that story ends, don’t we?”

At a town-hall-style event in Grinnell, Iowa, this month, Mrs. Clinton, talking about the importance of voter participation, even seemed to forget, albeit briefly, that the short-term goal was to win the Iowa caucuses. “If not me, I hope you caucus for somebody,” she said. She paused. “I hope more of you caucus for me.”

Mrs. Clinton is focused on capturing the nomination and has been contrasting herself with the Republicans since she announced her candidacy in April, the campaign aide said.

Mr. Sanders’s campaign manager, Jeff Weaver, said Mrs. Clinton’s obsession with the Republican Party is a tactic to diminish her main Democratic primary opponent, whose economic message has attracted enormous crowds and enthusiasm.

As Mr. Sanders delivered his standard speech about inequality here on Saturday, Mr. Weaver closely watched the voters in the front row who wore blue “H” T-shirts, indicating their support for Mrs. Clinton, as they cheered for Mr. Sanders several times.

“We are much closer to Secretary Clinton today than Senator Obama was in 2008,” Mr. Weaver said. “I don’t think they think this is locked up.”

Mrs. Clinton may have been helped by the campaign’s shift to foreign policy, where Mr. Sanders is seen as weaker, after the Nov. 13 terrorist attack in Paris. Mrs. Clinton said in a speech in New York on Thursday that the Republicans’ approach to fighting the Islamic State, compared with her own, amounted to “a choice between fear and resolve.” She derided as un-American the Republicans who said they would either bar Syrian refugees from resettling in the United States or allow only Christian refugees.

“There are forces no candidate can control, and they can be detrimental,” Representative James E. Clyburn, Democrat of South Carolina, said when asked about the newfound focus on defeating the Islamic State. “I believe in this case third-party forces are working in her favor.”

Among Democrats, Mrs. Clinton holds a 25 percentage point lead over Mr. Sanders nationally, according to a Bloomberg Politics poll released on Friday. She had a nine-point advantage in the same poll in September, when it included Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., who later said he would not seek the nomination.

“By turning up the heat on Republicans, going after Trump, that’s all part of the essence of saying, ‘I am the leader of the Democratic Party,’ ” said Robert Shrum, a strategist for Democratic presidential candidates including John Kerry and Al Gore.

The primary is by no means determined. Polls in Iowa, in particular, tend to undercount Mr. Sanders’s young supporters who do not have landline phones, his aides say. And he continues to lead in some polls in New Hampshire, which was supposed to be a stronghold for Mrs. Clinton.

Even as Mrs. Clinton focuses firmly on the Republicans, her campaign is increasing its indirect, if aggressive, moves to squeeze Mr. Sanders.

She has secured the backing of major labor unions, including most recently the Service Employees International Union, which has two million members. Her campaign has emphasized Mrs. Clinton’s commitment to gun control, an issue that Mr. Sanders, as a senator from a hunting state, has been less vehement about, and she delivered a major foreign policy speech on Thursday in New York, the same day Mr. Sanders delivered a speech about Democratic socialism in Washington. (“Ah, the attempted bigfoot,” Mr. Weaver said of the timing of the two speeches. The Clinton campaign announced its speech a day earlier than the Sanders team.)

Mrs. Clinton has also started to imply that Mr. Sanders’s single-payer “Medicare for All” health care plan would amount to a middle-class tax increase.

In recent days, she has unveiled a plan to give Americans with unexpected medical costs a tax credit of $2,500 for an individual or $5,000 for a family. On Sunday in Iowa, she introduced another tax credit to cover up to $6,000 of medical expenses for middle-class families caring for ailing parents or grandparents. “I believe you deserve a raise, not a tax increase,” she said in Memphis.

The Sanders campaign said that his plan would save the average family $5,000 a year through the elimination of premiums, deductibles and co-payments, and it called Mrs. Clinton’s plan “Republican-lite” because it proposed short-term tax cuts over long-term benefits.

Mrs. Clinton’s opponents point out that there is no more precarious place for her to be than when she seems inevitable, as she did in the early months of the 2008 Democratic primary before she finished third in the Iowa caucuses behind Senators Barack Obama and John Edwards.

This month, just after Mrs. Clinton had officially put her name on the ballot in New Hampshire, she took some questions from local reporters at the State House in Concord. The first question: “How does it feel to once again be inevitable?”

Mrs. Clinton said she had put her name on the ballot in that very room in 2007. “I’m back again,” she said. “I intend to do everything I can to work as hard as possible to be successful this time.”

When Spaniards were the refugees
The Syrian migrant crisis is drawing comparisons with the exodus during Spain’s Civil War

With tens of thousands of refugees continuing to arrive on the shores of Europe this summer, most of them fleeing the conflict in Syria, the scenes have brought back memories of Spain’s own Civil War to some people. 

“Seventy-six years separate these two photographs,” writes Antonio Manfredi in the Facebook post below. “The top one is from this summer, showing war refugees in Macedonia. The one below, the same, depicts Spaniards held in French internment camps after the Civil War. What’s the difference? We can’t just be content with our newfound wealth. We have to remember who we were.”

This photograph, among the many highlighting the similarities between today’s situation and the desperate efforts of Spaniards to flee poverty last century, shows a group of around 100 people who sailed from the Canary Islands to Venezuela without papers in 1949. A decade ago the image was used alongside the slogan “We too were foreigners” as part of an awareness campaign created by the regional government of the Canary Islands at a time when large numbers of people were arriving there in rickety boats from West Africa.

EL PAÍS journalist Tomás Bárbulo notes that the men and women aboard the boat were mostly farm laborers who earned around 20 pesetas (12 euro cents) a day working from sunup to sundown, and who paid 4,000 pesetas (€24) to make the crossing.

“Juan Azcona, one of the organizers of the voyage, says he had around 20 people staying in his house,” says Bárbulo. “Today, under current law, he would be sent to prison for people trafficking.”

“When those 106 people disembarked in Latin America, Spain was mired in misery and under the boot of Franco, while Venezuela was an emerging economy. Although the difference between the two states was less than say, Nigeria and Spain today, at the time, Spaniards were looking abroad to make a new life, in the same way that people from Africa do today,” says Bárbulo.

Used by journalist Toño Fraguas in an article in El Mundo newspaper, this photograph shows the British vessel the Stanbrook, which along with three other steamers and several fishing boats, left the port of Alicante in March 1939, in the final days of the Civil War, with 2,638 people aboard.

When the Stanbrook arrived in the Algerian port of Oran, the French authorities initially refused to allow passengers to disembark, eventually transferring them to internment camps.

Meanwhile, desperate Republicans continued arriving in the Valencia region after those boats left, looking for a way out of Spain. Many committed suicide or drowned after throwing themselves into the sea. London and Paris were disinclined to accept Spanish war refugees, but one country that did step forward was Mexico, then ruled by left-leaning president Lázaro Cárdenas.

On July 1, 1940, Cárdenas said Mexico was prepared to accept all Spanish refugees then in France, and placed them under Mexican diplomatic protection. Spanish refugees continued to travel from France to Mexico until December 1942, when Germany occupied Vichy France, which had been run by a puppet regime headed by Marshal Pétain.

Spanish Republicans had been escaping to Mexico since 1937, when a boat carrying 463 children left Bordeaux. According to Alted, some of the children were sent without the permission of their parents.

But Cárdenas was criticized by conservatives at home, as well as by labor unions, which feared the new arrivals would drive down wages.

The Mexican authorities tried to vet refugees, allowing only those in with sufficient funds to travel, and keeping them away from Mexico City. The majority of Spaniards who went to Mexico were from the middle classes: teachers, lawyers and other professionals, along with politicians and intellectuals, most of whom did take up residence in the capital. Estimates put the number of Spaniards who left for Mexico after the war at between 20,000 and 24,000.

Spanish war refugees also ended up in Argentina, Chile, Cuba, the Soviet Union, the United States, Dominican Republic and other countries. But many also ended up in French prison camps. Alted quotes José Ramón y Mena, a Republican who arrived at the Argelès camp in February 1939: “There were no toilets or running water, the French had installed some water pumps on the beach, using saltpeter, and this created dreadful conditions that led to a dysentery epidemic. People were dropping like flies.”

France was clearly not prepared to accept the Spanish exiles and, as Alted notes, “was especially interested in forcing people to return to Spain or to move on to other countries.”

As a result of France’s refusal to offer the refugees sanctuary, by the end of 1939, growing numbers of Spaniards, particularly women and children, had returned to Spain, leaving between 140,000 and 180,000 in French prison camps. Men aged between 20 and 48 were required to work for the French military authorities, and around 55,000 were enrolled into various organizations, including the French Foreign Legion. When the Germans invaded in the summer of 1940 and France capitulated, many Spaniards became prisoners of war and were sent to Germany to work, says Alted.

But by 1943, Spaniards were being sent from French prison camps to German concentration camps such as Mauthausen, in Austria, as British historian Paul Preston writes in his book The Spanish Holocaust. “On August 20, 1940, a train consisting of cattle wagons left Angoulême with 927 Spanish refugees aboard,” writes Preston. They believed they were being taken to the French-run part of France. “The journey lasted three days and nights, with the refugees unable to sit, with no food or water. On August 24, they arrived at Mauthausen.”

Preston tells how the women and children were taken off the train shortly after it left Angoulême and repatriated to Spain against their wishes. Of the 490 men who arrived to Mauthausen, 397 died there. In total, more than 5,000 Spaniards died in German concentration camps after they were handed over by the French authorities.

